GIT BRANCHING & COLLABORATION

Task 1

Create a new branch:

git checkout -b feature-playlist

Create a file named playlist.md and write:

# Top 3 Favorite Spotify Playlists

1. Today's Top Hits
2. Chill Hits
3. Workout Music

Add and commit the file:

git add playlist.md
git commit -m "Add favorite Spotify playlists"


Task 2

Switch to main:

git checkout main

Make a change in playlist.md and commit it:

git add playlist.md
git commit -m "Update playlist on main branch"

Switch to feature-playlist:

git checkout feature-playlist

Make a different change to the same line in playlist.md and commit it:

git add playlist.md
git commit -m "Update playlist on feature branch"

Switch back to main:

git checkout main

Merge the feature branch:

git merge --no-ff feature-playlist

If there is a conflict, open playlist.md in VS Code.

VS Code will show the conflict with options:

Accept Current Change
Accept Incoming Change
Accept Both Changes

Choose the required option, save the file, and then run:

git add playlist.md
git commit -m "Resolve playlist merge conflict"


Task 3

Fork a public GitHub data science repository from GitHub.

Clone your fork:

git clone YOUR_FORK_REPOSITORY_URL

Go inside the project:

cd PROJECT_FOLDER

Create a new branch:

git checkout -b feature-zomato-analysis

Create a file named:

zomato_analysis.txt

Write:

I would analyze Zomato order data to find popular restaurants, cuisines, order trends, delivery times, and customer ratings.

Add and commit:

git add zomato_analysis.txt
git commit -m "Add Zomato data analysis description"


Task 4

Push the feature branch:

git push -u origin feature-zomato-analysis

Open the GitHub repository.

Click "Compare & pull request".

Create a Pull Request to the original repository.

PR title:

Add Zomato analysis description

PR comment:

This change adds a short description of how Zomato order data can be analyzed to find useful business insights.

Request a review from a classmate.


Task 5

Sample Pull Request Review Comment:

"Great work on the new data visualization feature. The chart is clear and makes the data easier to understand. Please consider adding axis labels and a title so users can understand the visualization more easily. Overall, this is a useful addition to the project."